A Description of the Band Analysis Routine 

	This routine is entered from the crt plot routines (which plot 
the spectrum) by typing an "A". The routine then prompts the user
for one of three actions: the changing of the vertical and horizontal scales,
the opening of a new file, or the analysis of a band. 

	The changing of the plot scales (option c) proceeds exactly as the 
normal scale changing is done in plotting a spectrum.  

	If the user wishes to open a new file, the option o is typed
and then the user is prompted for the file name and a title for the
data which is to be written.

	By typing the option "a", the user begins the analysis of a
band. The user is first prompted for the first point which lies on
the continuum which surrounds the band of interest. After this
prompt is given the user is expected to use the graphics cursor
position keys to move the cursor to the first continuum point and
then to enter a return. A box is then drawn around the nearest point
in terms of wavelength in the data set ( i.e. the continumm points
can be selected by locating their proper horizontal postion alone
and ignoring the current vertical postion of the graphics cursor).
After the first point has been selected the user is then asked
whether this point is at the right postion, if it is not the user
may redo it by typing an r or may continue on by entering a return.
Once the user has selected the first continuum point, the process is 
then repeated for the second continum point. If both points are now
correct the user enters a return and the data is scaled by dividing out the
continuum and then it is reploted. 
	At this point in the analysis the hopefully still
interactive user decides whether he would like to move the locations
of the continum points (option "m"), change the plot scales (option "c") or 
have the band center selected ( return).
	If the user decides to do another continuum the new continum is
done with exactly the same process by which the orginal continuum
was selected. The only exception being that the data for the y axis which 
is used to select the new continuum is no longer the original data but 
the data currently displayed on the screen.
	If the user wishes to rescale the data, it is done in the
same manner as in the normal spectrum plotting routine.
	If the user decides that all is correct and the band center
should now be selected as the program begins its feverish work. The
program first searches the data which is displayed to find the
minimum data point(vertical) between the two selected continuum
points. Once the minimum point has been found a parabola is fit to
the minimum point and the two points nearest to this minimum.  The 
the center wavelength(xcoordinate) of this parabola is then
calculated as well as the reflectance on the parabola at this point.
A solid veritcal line is then plotted from this calculated set of
coordinates to the continuum.  The reflectance level of the full
width half max (fwhm) is then calculated and the fwhm is then itself
drawn as a dashed line between the sides of the band with its
endpoints being solid boxes. A vertical dashed line at the center point of 
the fwhm is then drawn from the reflectance level where the data is
interesected to the continuum. If there are enough channels ( 10
chanels are currently being used as the limit ) between the two 
endpoints of the fwhm the routine will draw a cross at the full width 
quarter max (fwqm).  This routine repeats this process determining 
whether it is possible to find the subsequent full widths (e.g. full width 
eigth max) by examining the number of channels as determined by the previous 
full width. The last full width that can be determined is the full
full width sixtyfourth max.  The last fwqm ( if present) or subsequent 
width which has been located is drawn as a dotted line width its
endpoints being two small solid boxes. The center of this width is then
computed and a vertical dotted line is draw from its intersection
with the data to the continuum. 
	The user is now asked whether he would prefer to use the fit 
selected center (return) or to manually select the band center (option s).
	If the fit selected center is chosen the fwhm is calculated,
as well as the assymetry parameter and the band depth with the band
center and fwhm being written to the terminal.
	If the user chooses to manually select the band center he
must manually move the graphics cursor (as before) to the correct
horizontal postion. A full width half max is then drawn on the
graphics screen and is calculated and then writen to the terminal.
After the band center has been selected the user has the option to redo 
the center ( option r ) or to venture forward (return). The user
then has the option to select the fwhm manaully ( option f ) or to
have the width selected automatically. If manual selection is chosen
a horizontal line is drawn at the proper reflectance level and the
user then selects two points on that line in a manner similar to
chosing the original continuum (Note: with noisy data manual
selection may need to be used).
	After the fwhm has been determined by either of the methods
above, the user is then asked whether the error associated with the
horizontal data should be determined automatically (return) or
picked by the user (option m). The automatic error selection finds
the first two points on the either side of the channel nearest the
closest channel to the band center and takes there absolute
difference divided by four as the horizontal error value.  If one 
wishes to determine the horizontal error manually, two points are 
entered in a fashion similar to the selection of the continuum 
or the manual determination of the fwhm. 
	Once the error has been obtained by either method the user
is asked whether the data should be written to an ascii text file (default). 
If the user does not wish to write the data to a file the program
(enter n) the routine then asks the user if he would like to exit 
( option e ) or begin the entire process again ( return). If, however, 
the user wishes to write the data, the program prompts the user for
a file and title for the data if a file is not currently open. The user then 
receives a prompt for a  15 character comment (longer comments are
silently truncated) which describes the band ( there should be a
description of the standard comment field somewhere, ask your local
spectral wizard). After a comment has been entered the program asks
the user decide whether to exit (option e) or to begin the entire
process once more.







Known crashes:
	1) If one attempts to run the program to analyze a band with
a large number of deleted 
