.sh 1 "STARTING SPECPR ON THE TI 980 B COMPUTER " 3


To run SPECPR:
.pp
The interactive terminal system (ITS) may or may not be running.

A)  If ITS is running:
.pp
Press RESET TERMINAL twice fast on the HP2648A graphics
terminal.  Logon if necessary.  Type a job card to identify
yourself:
.ce
JOB NAME RNC

Name can be any 6 characters.  Your name or SPECPR might be
used.  Now type:
.ce
RUN SPECPR

The program will begin when memory becomes available.

B)  If ITS is not running:
.pp
From the system console, type a job card:
.ce
//JO NAME RNC

where NAME is as above and // is the escape key.

Then type:
.ce
//RU SPECPR DEV=T3

The program will begin when memory becomes available.
.bp


.sh 1 "PROGRAM INITIALIZATION "


.sh 2 "Beginning "
.pp
As the program is started, the terminal is put in graphics mode
and the SPECPR version date is written on the screen.  The
program waits for a carriage return before continuing.  Several
options are available at this point:
.pp
To change the graphics mode, type G and a number to:
.l( I
 G2= Set, White on Black
 G3= Compliment, White on Black
G11= Set, Black on White
G13= Compliment, Black on White
G99= Not a graphics terminal
other numbers <10= Jam mode, White on Black (default)
other numbers >10= Jam mode, Black on White
.l)
.pp
White on black is white letters on a black screen.  Set means to
turn on graphs bits but do not turn off unless the screen is
erased.  This is like a storage display.  Compliment means to
turn bits on that are off or off if they are on.  Jam means to
erase a block where a character is to be written.  This is the
most desirable because, if you make a mistake and backspace on a
line you type in, the new letters you type will be readable.
This is the default mode.
.pp
To change the default volume numbers (default=2), type
.ul
V
and the volume number.
.pp
To change the default userid (default=SPEC), type
.ul
U.
The program will then ask for the userid.
.pp
A restart routine is used so that SPECPR may be exited and later
restarted with the same files assigned and protection and other
parameters the same as the time of the exit.  This routine was
written specifically for calling sons and daughters of SPECPR but
is also useful for general use.  Note that before you use the
restart option, you must be sure that nobody has used the program
since you last used it, or you will need to reset all the
protections and assignments to load your data again.  The restart
parameters are stored in a disc file and are updated each time
the program operations control routine is entered.  Thus, when
doing math operations or transferring, the restart parameter file
is not updated until the entry to program operations control.
.pp
For example to restart under a different userid (e.g. TEST), type
.ul
UR
(if you type
.ul
RU,
the program will restart before seeing the U for a different
userid).  The program will ask for the userid then restart after
you have typed it in.


.sh 2 "Protection "
.pp
All files may be totally or partially protected, or completely
unprotected.  The fourth line of the CRT header gives the
protection status for all six devices (devices V, W, D, U, V, and
S).  If the protection number is positive or zero, the device is
a read/write device where you can read up to and including the
protection, but you can only write to the protection +1 file.  A
protection number of -1 means the device is a read-only device
where you can read up to the absolute value of the protection
number.   The protection numbers are typed in on one line in the
initialization routine as the file ID and protection number.
Example:  "V0 D-1 U432 Y-600 W-600 S-50", where V0 means to
protect 0 files on device V (write to file 1 only, 0 files can be
read); U432 means to protect files up 732 files (write to file
433); Y-600 means that Y is a read-only device with 600 files;
similarly for W; and S is a read only device with 50 files.  If
the protection number is zero or positive, it is incremented each
time the device is written to.  One or more device protection
numbers may be changed on the same line.  See section 2.3 for
more details.


.sh 2 "Observatory Location "
.pp
Three letter codes are shown for often used observatories.  If
you wish another location, type T and then the program will request
the latitude in degrees, minutes, seconds, free format.
Longitude is not needed because the sidereal time is contained
with each spectrum.  The observatory location is used only in
computing the airmass in the object-sky subtraction routine.


.sh 2 "Device Names "
.pp
The device names are the names of the mag tapes from which the
data comes or will be written.  The tape names are a maximum of 8
characters.  You must be certain these names are correct if you
want the histories to be correct.  First, you are asked to type in
the name of the Rawfile (device W), then Savefile (device V), then
Workfile (device D), then U file and Y file.  If no name is
entered for device D, the name defaults to WORKFILE.  There is no
default for V or W.
.bp


.sh 1 "DEVICE AND FILE ASSIGNMENTS "


.sh 2 "Assignments "
.pp
The device file assignment status is displayed on the CRT.  Each
device is assigned one at a time by single letter codes.  When
assigning a "device" (letter V, W, D, S, U, or Y) to disc, you
type D and a number 1 or 2 for the disc volume number.  If no
number is entered, the default is 2.  Throughout the program, the
device and file status in short form is displayed in the top 4
lines on the CRT.  This tells whether or not the devices are
assigned, where assigned, the current file pointer position,
savefile protection, wavelength file in use, number of channels,
and the device names.
.pp
Devices assigned to DUMMY means these devices are not accessed.
If access is requested when assigned to DUMMY,  the program cannot
respond and will tell you so.  Error numbers encountered when
assigning devices can be found on the bulletin board to the left
of the terminal.
.pp
If device V is assigned and then you try to assign U to the same
thing, the program will say that device V must be assigned to DUMMY
before U is assigned.  Similarly with W and Y.  If any confusion
occurs when these messages appear, it may be easiest to assign
both (U and V, or Y and W) to DUMMY before proceeding.
.pp
Typing
.ul
E
or
.ul
X
will cause the program to exit to the next routine.
.pp
The printer plotter is never assigned by the user.  It is
assigned by the program only when needed for a plot.
.pp
Multiple commands are allowed in the device and file assignment
section.  The old version could only accept 1 character commands
at a time, resulting in rewriting the screen each time a device or
file was assigned.  You may now type in all assignments on one
line.  Thus, you can now assign 8 devices and files in essentially
the same time as it previously took to assign one.
.pp
Example:  Assign V to disc (D); D to disc (D); U to MT0 (M); W to
disc (D); S to disc (D); and to assign the lineprinter (L), you would
type on one line the sequence:
.pp
"VDDDUMWDSDLL".  Note these are the same characters you used to
type to do the same thing, only you had to wait for the screen to
be rewritten.  Spaces may be inserted anywhere or left out
completely.  Devices may be assigned in any order.  You may also
assign devices the old way.  If you forget what letter to type,
you may break the command sequence at any point.
.pp
Example:  say you forgot that M was to assign U to MT0.  Then to
perform the assignments as in the example before, type "VDDDU"; the
program will then list which characters to type for assignment of
U.  Selecting "M" and wishing to assign the rest of the devices,
you could then type "MWDSDLL".  The exit command is also a valid
command.  Thus, to exit without rewriting the screen in the above
example, type:
.pp
"VDDDUMWDSDLLE" or "VDDDUMWDSDLLX".  However, it might be wise to
make sure the devices are assigned properly before exiting.  If an
error is encountered, the program halts assignments at that
point, lists the character, rewrites the screen with the current
assignment status, and waits for new input.
