.sh 2 "File Input and Options " 13 6
.pp
The files to be plotted are input as the file ID (V, W, OR D),
the file number, and the options.  For all data files input, the
wavelength file assumed is file 1.  If another file is to be used,
this must be requested as an option.  A maximum of 15 spectra may
be plotted at one time.  These may be all on one graph or
separated into many plots by an option request.  The options are
listed below.
.ba 5
.ip "Option E" 15
is include Errors.
.ip "Option C" 15
means to Connect the data points.  If the wavelengths are not in
sequence, or a channel has been deleted, the points involved are
not connected.
.ip "Option N" 15
means that, if a point lies outside the lower or upper bound, it
should be deleted.  If this specification is not given, the point
will be plotted at the limit of the graph.
.ip "Option A" 15
followed by a number (1 to 10) means the wavelength file is the
number.  The default file is 1.
.ip "Option P" 15
followed by a number is the point size.  This number can be 0 to
5.  If the number is zero, no point will be plotted.  Point size 1 is
about 1.27mm on a side, size 2 is twice this, size 3 is three
times, etc.  Note, if point size zero is specified and points are
not connected, no data will be plotted, and you will have a blank
plot!  A line drawing can be made by specifying point size zero and
connect points.  The point size default varies with the total
number of channels per spectrum.  It is size 3 for 30 channels or
less, size 2 for 31 to 150 channels, and size 1 for more than 150
channels.  The symbol type changes with each spectrum plotted.
See Table 13.6.1.
.ip "Option L" 15
followed by a number 1, 3, 5, or 7 selects the line size
(missing) for the axis is fixed at 3.  The number 1, 3, 5, or 7
is the number of Gould units the line thickness is.   Size 1 is
about 1/200 of an inch (0.127 mm).  The line size changes error
bars and the line connecting points.  The default is size 1.
.ip "Option G" 15
means the spectrum after this one is to be plotted on a new
graph.  Thus, 15 spectra may be plotted on a single graph
(overlaid), or they may be plotted singly or any
combination.  The G (new Gould plot) selects when a new plot
is to begin.  Fifteen plots, plotted singly, may take
90 minutes or more.
.ip "Option D" 15
means to delete points from this spectrum only (as opposed to
delete from all spectra input as in section 13.4).  The program
will ask for channels to be typed in when it is ready.  More than
one line may be used to input the channels to be deleted (256
channels maximum).  When you are finished inputting channels,
type
.ul
C
to continue.
.ip "Option M" 15
More copies:  In the options, specify "M" and the number of copies
desired (1 to 9) default=1.  Note you need this option only on
the last spectrum to be put on the plot.
.ip "Option S" 15
Symbol type:  To change symbol type, specify "S" and the symbol
number (1 to 8).  See manual for symbols.  The symbol size is
given by the "P" specification (point symbol size).  The symbol
type is incremented for each spectrum input and is reset to 1 for
each new Gould plot ("G" specification).  See table 13.6.1.
.ip "Option R" 15
Since mistakes are bound to happen when typing in all these
spectra, you may return to the last step for re-inputting your
data.  This is done by typing an "R" in place of a file ID and
file number.  Example:  You type in the spectra
.l(

        1)  "V23EA2P3"
        2)  "V29EP4"
        3)  "V30A3P1C"
        4)  "V33A5".

.l)
You now notice the step #3 should have been "V31A3P1C".  You are
at step 5:  you type "R"; the computer says

        "RETURN TO 4; CONTINUE".

You then type "R" again, and the computer responds

        "RETURN TO 3; CONTINUE".

You may then retype step 3 (and also all steps after 3).  You
may not return to a step before the first spectrum input (if you
need to, you must "E" or "X" to exit).
.ip "Option T" 15
means to include text on the graph.  Text may be written as 11
sets of 20 characters per set for each spectrum entered.  The
text position is given in centimeters [horizontal direction (x),
then vertical (y)] from the lower left-hand corner of the axes of
the plot.  After the x and y position, input the text angle
(90\(de is horizontal with the text rotating counterclockwise
with increasing angle) and then the text to be input (20
characters maximum).  All that goes on one line.  When you are
finished inputting text, type
.ul
C
in place of the horizontal text position number.  One
character=0.34 cm wide use line feed of 0.60 cm.

.ba 0
.pp
.ul
Text entry:
You may also return to the previous text entry using the "R"
specification as with the file input.  You may not return to a
previous entry before text entry 1.  If you have an error in a
previous file entry, type "C" to continue to next step after text
entry; then return to last file input as described above.  The "S"
in the text entry is used for symbol entry.  When at a text entry
point, type "S" then the following numbers:  symbol type (1 to 8),
the symbol size (1 to 6), and the x (0-25 centimeters) and y (0-19
centimeters) coordinates of the symbol position.  Separate
numbers by spaces.
.pp
The SPECPR Gould plot routines allow subscripting, superscripting,
and backspacing of text.  Special characters are used to enter
the different modes and can be used wherever text is written on
the plot (horizontal or vertical axis labels or other text).  The
characters are:
.TS
center,tab(!);
l l.
T{
.ul
Character
T}!T{
.ul
Effect
T}
\ (Backslash)!Backspace to previous character
{ (Left Brace)!Go into subscript mode
} (Right Brace)!go into superscript mode
@ (At sign)!End last scripting mode
.TE
.pp
It was assumed that these characters would not need to be printed
so they have been reserved for the above special use.  Backslash
can be used to cause characters to be overprinted.  An "at sign"
terminates the last use of a brace.  All characters in between
are printed in script mode.

Examples:
.l(

                O\-             Will print as O-
                A{1             Will print as A1
                SAM\\\___       Will print as SAM___
                X}2@-Y          Will print as X2-Y

.l)
.pp
Typing
.ul
X
in place of a file D will cause the program to return to the beginning
of the routine (section 13.2).  Typing
.ul
B
will begin building the plot on the disc.  Note you must turn on
the Gould printer plotter and press the remote button (next to the
on button).  If you do not, when the plot is dumped to the Gould,
it will not be ready; and messages will appear on the system
console.


.sh 2 "Building Plot "
.pp
Each stage of the plot will be printed on the CRT.  When the
plotting is finished, the program asks if you want additional
copies (this applies only to the present plot and not previous
plots which were generated under the
.ul
G
option).  If you wish to exit, type zero and the program will
return to the beginning of the plot routines (section 13.2).
